## How do directory permissions work?

Directory file types are indicated with `d`. Conceptually, permissions operate the same way, but directories interpret these operations differently.

### Read (r)

Like regular files, this permission allows you to read the contents of the directory. However, that means that you can view the contents (or files) stored within the directory. This permission is required to have things like the `ls` command work.

### Write (w)

As with regular files, this allows someone to modify the contents of the directory. When you are changing the contents of the directory, you are either adding files to the directory or removing files from the directory. As such, you must have write permission on a directory to move (`mv`) or remove (`rm`) files from it. You also need write permission to create new files (using `touch` or a file-redirect operator) or copy (`cp`) files into the directory.

### Execute (x)

This permission is very different on directories compared to files. Essentially, you can think of it as providing access to the directory. Having execute permission on a directory authorizes you to look at extended information on files in the directory (using `ls -l`, for instance) but also allows you to change your working directory (using `cd`) or pass through this directory on your way to a subdirectory underneath.

Lacking execute permission on a directory can limit the other permissions in interesting ways. For example, how can you add a new file to a directory (by leveraging the write permission) if you can't access the directory's metadata to store the information for a new, additional file? You cannot. It is for this reason that directory-type files generally offer execute permission to one or more of the user owner, group owner, or others.
